I want to try and focus on scenarios
where AI goes rogue. You know, I should
have had like a picture of a Terminator
robot to like scare people as much as
possible. I think the internet
The internet does that for us.
Are the lords of artificial [music]
intelligence on the side of the human
race? My prediction is that they'll be
they'll be more robots than people. The
physical and the digital [music]
world should really be fully blended.
>> think the world has really had the
humanoid robots in [music] a moment yet.
It's going to feel very sci-fi. That's
the core question I had for this week's
guest. He's the head of Anthropic, one
of the fastest [music] growing AI
companies. Anthropic is estimated to be
worth nearly $350
billion. [music]
>> It's been win after win for Anthropic's
Claude code.
>> He's a utopian of sorts [music] when it
comes to the potential effects of the
technology that he's unleashing on the
world. [music] You know, will help us
cure cancer, it may help us to eradicate
tropical diseases, it will help us
understand [music]
understand the universe. But he also
sees grave dangers ahead and massive
disruption no matter what.
>> This is [music] happening so fast and is
such a crisis, we should be devoting
almost all of our effort to thinking
[music] about how to get through this.
Dario Amodei, welcome to Interesting
Times. Thank you for having me, Russ.
Thank you for being here.
>> [music]
>> So, you are rather unusually, maybe for
a tech CEO, an essayist. You have
written two long, very interesting
essays about the promise and the peril
of artificial intelligence. And we're
going to talk about the perils in this
conversation, but I thought it would be
good to start with the promise and with
the optimistic vision, indeed, I would
say the utopian vision that you laid out
a couple of years ago in an essay
entitled Machines of Loving Grace, which
we'll come back to that title, I think,
at the end. But you know, I think a lot
of people encounter AI news through
headlines predicting
you know, a a bloodbath for white-collar
jobs, these kinds of things. Sometimes
your own quotes Sometimes my own quotes,
yes. have encouraged these things. And I
think there's a common place sense of
what is AI for
that people have. So,
why don't you answer that question to
start out? If everything goes amazingly
in the next 5 or 10 years, what's AI
for?
Yeah, so you know, I think for a little
background, before I worked in AI,
before I worked in tech at all, I was a
I was a biologist.
Um you know, I first worked on
computational neuroscience and and you
know, then I worked at Stanford Medical
School on finding protein biomarkers for
cancer on you know, trying to improve
diagno- diagnostics and curing cancer.
And one of the observations that I most
had when I worked in that field was the
incredible complexity of it. You know,
each protein is has a level localized
within each cell. It's not enough to
measure the level within the body, the
level within each cell. You have to
measure the level in a particular part
of the cell and the other proteins that
it's interacting with, they're
complexing with. And I had this sense of
man, this is too complicated for humans.
We're making progress on on, you know,
all these these problems of biology and
medicine, but we're making progress
relatively slowly. And so what drew me
to the field of AI was this idea that
you know, could we make progress more
quickly? Look, we've been trying to
apply AI and machine learning techniques
to biology for a long time.
Um typically they've been for analyzing
data. But as AI gets really powerful, I
think we should actually think about it
differently. We should think of AI as
you know, doing doing the job of the
biologist, right? Doing the whole thing
from end to end. And and part of that
involves you know, proposing
experiments, coming up with new
techniques. I have this section where I
say, "Look, a lot of the progress in
biology has been driven by this
relatively small number of insights that
lets us measure or get at or intervene
in the stuff that's really small." You
look at a lot of these techniques,
they're they're invented very much as a
matter of serendipity, right? CRISPR,
which is, you know, one of these these
gene editing technologies, was was
invented because someone went to a
lecture on the bacterial immune system
and uh connected that to the work they
were doing on on gene therapy. And and
that connection could have been made 30
years ago. And so, the thought is, you
know, could AI accelerate all of this
and could we really cure cancer? Could
we really cure Alzheimer's disease?
Could we really cure, you know, heart
disease? And, you know, more subtly,
some of the more psychological
afflictions that that people have, you
know, depression, bipolar, you know,
could we do something about these extent
that they're they're biologically based,
which, you know, I think they are at
least in part. Um so, you know, I go
through this argument here, "Well, how
fast could it go, right? If we have
these intelligences out there who could
do just about anything?" And I And I
want to pause you there cuz one of the
interesting things about your framing in
that essay, and you've sort of returned
to it, is that
these intelligences don't have to be,
right, the kind of maximal god-like
superintelligence that comes up in AI
debates. You're basically saying if we
can achieve a strong intelligence at the
level of sort of peak human performance.
>> Peak human performance, yes.
>> multiply it, right, to what your phrase
is, a country of geniuses.
>> of have have a hundred million of them.
Right. You know, maybe each a little a
little trained a little different or,
you know, trying a different problem.
There's there's there's benefit in in in
diversification and trying things a
little differently. But, yes. Right. So,
you don't have to have the full machine
god. You just need to have 100 million
geniuses.
>> have to have the full machine god. And
and indeed there are places where I cast
doubt on on on whether the machine god,
you know, would be would be that much
more effective at these things than the
100 million geniuses. Right? I have this
concept called, you know, the the
diminishing returns to intelligence.
Right? Which is, you know, there's like,
you know, economists talk about, you
know, the marginal productivity of land
and labor. We've never thought about the
marginal productivity of intelligence,
but if I look at some of these problems
in biology like at some level you just
have to interact with the world. At some
level you just have to try things. At
some level you just have to comply with
the laws or change the laws on on, you
know, getting getting medicines through
the regulatory system. So, there's a,
you know, there's a finite rate at at
which these these changes can happen.
Now, there are some domains like if
you're playing chess or go where where,
you know, the intelligence ceiling is
extremely high. But I think the real
world has has a lot of limiters. So,
maybe you can go above the genius level,
but but, you know, sometimes I think all
this discussion of like, you know, could
you use a moon of computation to make an
AI god, um, you know, are are they're
they're a little bit sensationalistic
and and and kind of besides the point.
Even even as I think this will be the
biggest thing that ever happened to
humanity. Right. And and so you have So,
keeping it concrete, you have a world
where there's just an end to cancer
as a serious threat to human life, an
end to heart disease, an end to most of
the illnesses that we experience and
kill us. Possible life extension beyond
that.
So, that's health. That's a pretty
positive vision. Then talk about
economics and wealth. What happens in
the
5 to 10-year AI takeoff to to wealth?
>> So, again, let's let's keep it on the
positive side cuz there will be plenty
we'll we'll get we'll get to the
negative side. But, you know, we're
already working with pharma companies.
We're already working with, you know,
you know, financial industry companies.
folks who do manufacturing. We're of
course, you know, I think especially
known for coding and software
engineering. So, just the raw
productivity, the ability to like make
stuff and get stuff done,
that is very powerful. And you know, we
see our company's revenue growing up
going up 10x a year. And you know, we
suspect the wider industry looks
something similar to that. If the
technology keeps improving, it doesn't
take that many more 10x's until, you
know, suddenly you're saying, "Oh, you
know, if you're adding across the
industry a trillion dollars of revenue a
year, like, you know, the US GDP is 20
or 30 trillion, I can't remember
exactly. So, you you must be increasing
the GDP growth by a few percent. So, you
know, I can see a world where AI brings
the developed world GDP growth to
something like 10 or 15%. Um 5, 10, 15,
I mean, you know, there's no
there's no science of calculating these
numbers. It's a totally unprecedented
thing. But it could bring it to numbers
that are outside the distribution of
what we saw before. And again, I think
this will lead to a weird world, right?
You know, we have all these debates
about the deficit is growing, you know,
if if you have
that much in GDP growth, you're going to
have that much in tax receipts, and
you're going to balance the budget
without without meaning to. But one of
the things I've been thinking about
lately is, you know, I think one of the
assumptions of
just our economic and political debates
is that, you know, growth is hard to
achieve. It's this it's this, you know,
it's it's this unicorn. There are all
kinds of ways you can kill the golden
goose. We could enter a world where
growth is really easy, and it's it's
kind of the distribution that's hard
because it's happening so fast, right?
The pie is being increased so fast.
>> So, before before we get to the hard
problem, one more note of optimism then
on politics, I think. And here it's a
little more I mean, all of this is
speculative, but I think it's a little
more speculative. You try and make the
case
that AI could be good for democracy and
liberty around the world, which is not
necessarily intuitive. A lot of people
say, you know, incredibly powerful
technology in the hands of authoritarian
leaders leads to concentrations of power
and so on. And I talk about that in the
>> Just just but just briefly, what is the
optimistic case for why AI is good for
democracy? Yeah, yeah, I mean
absolutely. So yeah, I mean Machines of
Loving Grace I kind of like, you know,
I'm just like let's dream. Let's talk
about how it could go well. I don't know
how likely it is, but we got we got to
lay out a dream. Let's try to make the
dream happen. Um so, you know, I think
the positive version, you know, I don't
I admit there that I don't know that the
technology inherently favors liberty,
right? I think it inherently favors
curing disease and it inherently favors
economic growth, but I worry like you
that it may not inherently favor
liberty. But what I say there is can we
make it favor liberty, right? Can we
make the United States and other
democracies get ahead in this
technology? You know, the United States
has been technologically and militarily
ahead has has meant that we have throw
weight around the world through you
know,
augmented by our alliances with other
with other democracies and you know,
we've been able to shape a world that I
think, you know, is is is better than
the world would be if it were shaped by
Russia or by China or by other other
authoritarian countries. And so can we
use our lead in AI to you know, to to
shape to shape liberty around the world?
Um you know, there's obviously a lot of
debates about how interventionist we
should be how we should how we should
wield that power, but you know, I've
often worried that you know, today
through social media authoritarians are
kind of are kind of undermining us,
right? You know, can we counter that?
Can we win the information war? Can we
prevent authoritarians from you know,
invading countries like you know, like
Ukraine or Taiwan by you know, by
defending them with the power of AI?
>> With giant giant swarms of AI-powered
drones.
>> Which we need to be careful about. Uh
you know, we we ourselves need to be
careful about how we build those. We
need to defend, you know, liberty in our
own in our own country. But is you know,
is there is there some vision where we
kind of like re-envision liberty and
individual rights in the age of AI,
right? Where, you know, we we need in
some ways to be protected against AI.
You know, someone needs to hold the
button on the on the swarm of drones,
which is something I'm very, you know,
I'm very concerned about and that
oversight doesn't exist today. But you
know, also think about the justice
system today, right? We promise equal
justice for all, right? But you know,
the the truth is, you know, there are
different judges in the world. The legal
system is imperfect. I don't think we
should replace judges with AI, but is
there some way in which AI can help us
to be more fair, to help us be more
uniform, right? It's It's never been
possible before, but can can we somehow
use AI to create you know, something
that is fuzzy, but where also you can
give a promise that it's being applied
in the same way to to kind of everyone.
So, I don't know exactly how it should
be done and I you know, I I don't think
we should like replace the Supreme Court
with AI. You know, that that's not my
vision. Well, we're going to we're going
to talk about that. But but but just
just this idea that that, you know, can
we can we deliver on the on the promise
of equal opportunity and and equal
justice by by some combination of AI and
humans. I there there has to be some way
to do that. And and and so, you know,
just just thinking about reinventing
democracy for the AI age and and
enhancing liberty instead of yeah,
reducing it.
Good. So, that's good. That's a very
positive vision. We're living longer
lives, healthier lives. We're richer
than ever before. All of this is
happening in a compressed period of time
where you're getting a century of
economic growth in 10 years. And we have
increased liberty around the world and
equality at home.
Okay.
Even in the best-case scenario, it's
incredibly disruptive, right? And this
is where
>> [snorts]
>> the you know, the lines that you've been
quoted saying, you know, 50% of
white-collar jobs get disrupted or 50%
of entry-level white-collar jobs and so
on. So, on a 5-year time horizon or
2-year time horizon, whatever time
horizon you have,
what jobs, what professions are most
vulnerable to total AI disruption?
Yeah. Um you know, it's it's hard to
predict these things because the
technology is moving so fast and and
kind of and kind of move so unevenly.
So, at least a couple principles for
figuring out and then then I'll give my
guesses at like what I think will be
disrupted. So, you know, one thing is I
think the technology itself and its
capabilities will be ahead of the actual
job disruption. Two things have to
happen for jobs to be disrupted or for
productivity to occur cuz sometimes
those sometimes those two things are
linked. One is the technology has to be
capable of doing it. And the second is
there's this messy thing of, you know,
it actually has to be applied within a
large bank or a large company or you
know, think about customer service or
something, right? You know, in theory AI
customer service agents can be much
better than human customer service
agents. They're more patient, they know
more, they handle things in a more
uniform way, but the actual logistics
and the actual process of of, you know,
of of of making that substitution that
that that takes some time. So, I'm very
bullish about the kind of the direction
of the AI itself. Like, you know, I
think we might have that country of
geniuses in a data center in 1 or 2
years. And maybe it'll be five, but you
know, it
it could happen very fast, but I think
the diffusion to the economy is going to
be a little slower. And that diffusion
creates some some unpredictability. So,
so an example of this is, you know, and
we've seen with an Anthropic, the models
writing code has gone very fast. I don't
think it's because the models are
inherently better at code. I think it's
because developers are used to fast
technological change and they adopt
things quickly. Um you know, they and
they're very socially adjacent to the AI
world, so they pay attention to what's
happening in it. If you know, if you do
customer service or banking or
manufacturing,
the distance is a little greater. And so
I think 6 months ago, you know, I you
know, I would have said the first thing
to be disrupted is, you know, these kind
of entry-level
white-collar jobs like um you know, uh
uh
um data entry or you know, uh kind of
document review for law or kind of you
know, the things you would give to a
first year at at you know, a financial
industry company where you're analyzing
documents. And I still think those are
going pretty fast. Um but I but I
actually think software might go even
faster because of the because of the
reasons that I gave where I don't think
we're that far from the models being
able to do a lot of it a lot of it end
to end. And what we're going to see is
first the model only does a piece of
what the human software engineer does
and that increases their productivity.
Then even when the models do everything
that human software engineers used to
do, the human software engineers kind of
take a step up and you know, kind of
they act as managers and supervise the
systems. And and so
>> This is where the term centaur
>> [snorts]
>> Yes. is used, right? To describe
essentially like
man and horse fused, AI and engineer
working together. Yeah, this is like
centaur chess. So after I think Garry
Kasparov was beaten by Deep Blue, there
was an era that I think for chess was 15
or 20 years long where a a human
checking the output of the AI playing
chess was able to defeat any human or
any AI system alone. That era at some
point ended. And then it's just
>> recently and then and then it's just the
machine.
>> Yep. Um and and so my my worry of course
is about that last phase. So I think
we're already in our centaur phase for
software and and and you know, I think
during that centaur phase of anything
the demand for software engineers may go
up but the the period may be very brief
and so you know, I have this concern for
for entry-level white-collar uh work for
software engineering work. Um it's it's
just going to be a big disruption. I
think my worry is just that it's all
happening so fast. Right? People talk
about previous disruptions, right? You
know, they say, "Oh yeah, well, you
know, people used to be farmers, then we
all, you know, worked in industry, then
we all did knowledge work." Yeah, people
people people adapted. That happened
over
centuries or decades.
>> Right. This is happening over
low single-digit numbers of years. And
and maybe that's that's that's my
concern. How do we get people to adapt
fast enough?
>> But is there also something maybe where
industries like software and professions
like coding that have this kind of
comfort that you describe move faster,
but in other areas
people just want to hang out in the
centaur phase? So one of the critiques
of the job loss hypothesis will say,
people will say, "Well, look, you know,
we've had AI that's better at reading a
scan than a radiologist for a while. But
there isn't job loss in radiology.
People keep
being hired and employed as radiologists
and doesn't that suggest that
in the end people will want the AI and
they'll want a human to interpret it
because we're human beings and that will
be true across other fields? Like how
how do you see that that example
>> know, I think it's I think it's going to
be pretty heterogeneous. There may be
areas where a human touch
kind of for its own sake is is is is
particularly important. Um do you think
that's what's happening in radiology? I
I I don't know the I I I don't know the
details of radiology. That might be
true. You know, it's like you go in and
you're getting cancer diagnosed like,
you know, you don't you might not want,
you know, Hal from 2001 to be the one to
diagnose your cancer. Like it you know,
just not maybe maybe you know, that
that's just maybe not a human way of of
doing things. Um but there are other
areas where you might think human touch
is important. Like if we look at
customer service.
Actually, customer service is a terrible
job and the humans who do customer
service are like, you know, they they
lose their patience a lot and it turns
out customers don't much like talking to
them cuz it's like it's a pretty robotic
interaction, honestly. And I think the
observation that many people have had is
like you know, maybe maybe actually it'd
be better for all concerned if if this
job were done were done by machines. Um
uh Uh so there are places where human
touch is important, there are places
where it's not. And then there also
places where, you know, the the job
itself doesn't doesn't really involve,
you know, it doesn't really involve
human touch, you know, assessing the,
you know, the financial prospects of
companies or writing code or so forth
and so on.
>> Or let's let's take the example of the
law because I think it's a useful place
that's sort of in between
applied science and sort of pure
humanities, you know, whatever. So I
know a lot of lawyers who have
looked at what AI can do already in
terms of legal research and brief
writing and all of these things, right?
And have said, "Yeah, this is going to
be a bloodbath for the way our
profession works right now." And you've
seen this in the stock market already.
There's sort of disturbances around
companies that do legal legal research,
right?
>> to us. I don't know if they were
actually caused that, you know,
figured out why things happen in the
stock market.
>> about the about about the stock market
very much on this show. But um but it
seems like in law you can tell a pretty
straightforward story where law has a
kind of system of training and
apprenticeship where you have paralegals
and you have junior lawyers who do
behind the scenes research and
development for cases. And then it has
the top-tier lawyers who are actually in
the courtroom and so on. And it just
seems really easy to imagine a world
where
all of the apprentice roles go away.
Does that sound right to you and you're
just left with sort of the jobs that
involve talking to clients, talking to
juries, talking to judges? That is That
is what I had in mind when I talked
about, you know, entry-level
white-collar labor and, you know, the
bloodbath headlines of of, you know, oh
oh you know, oh my god, are the
entry-level pipelines going to going to
kind of dry up? And then then how do we
get to the level of the senior partners?
And I think this is actually a good
illustration because, you know,
particularly if you froze the quality of
the technology in place, you know, there
are over time ways to adapt to this,
right? You know, maybe we just need more
lawyers who spend their time talking to
clients, right? Maybe lawyers are more
like um become more like sales people or
consultants who, you know, explain what
goes on in the contracts written by AI,
you know, help people come to agreement.
Maybe you lean into the human side of
it. If we have enough time, that would
happen. But, you know, reshaping
industries like that takes years or
decades. Whereas these economic forces
driven by AI are going to happen very
quickly. And it's not just they're
happening in law, the same thing is
happening consulting and finance and
medicine and coding. And and so you have
this it becomes a macroeconomic
phenomenon, not something just happening
in one industry, and it's all happening
very fast. And so the norm I'm I'm just
my my worry here is that the normal
adaptive mechanisms will be overwhelmed.
And, you know, I'm not I'm not a doomer.
The the the the the the view is, you
know, when and we're thinking very hard
about, you know, how do we strengthen
society's adaptive mechanisms to respond
to this. But I think it's first
important to say this this isn't just
like the other, you know, this isn't
just like previous disruption.
>> I would I would then go one step further
though and say, okay, let's say the law
adapts successfully and it says, all
right, from now on
legal apprenticeship involves more time
in court, more time with clients. We're
essentially moving you up the ladder of
responsibility faster. There are fewer
people employed in the law overall, but
the profession sort of settles. Still,
the reason law would settle, right, is
that you have all of these situations in
the law where you are legally required
to have people involved, right? You you
know, you have to have a human
representative in court. You you know,
you have to have 12 humans on your jury.
You have to have a human judge. And you
already mentioned the idea that there
are various ways in which AI might be,
let's say, very helpful at clarifying
what kind of decision should be reached.
But but that too seems like a scenario
where what preserves human agency is law
and custom. Like you could replace the
judge with Claude version 17.9,
but you choose not to
because the law requires it there to be
a human. That that just seems like a
very
interesting way of thinking about the
future where it's almost it's volitional
whether we stay in charge. Yeah, that
you know, and and and I would argue that
in many cases we do want to stay in
charge, right? That that's a choice we
want to make even in some cases when we
think the humans on average make make
kind of worse worse worse decision. I
mean, you know, again, life critical,
safety critical cases, we we really want
to we really want to turn it over. But
there's there's some sense of, you know,
and this could be one of our defenses,
society can only adapt so fast if it's
going to be good.
>> Right. Another way you could say about
it is, you know, like maybe AI itself,
if it didn't have to care about us
humans, you know, it could just go off
to Mars and like build all these
automated factories and build its own
society and and do its own thing. But,
that's not the problem we're trying to
solve. We're not We're not trying to
solve the problem of, you know, building
a Dyson swarm of, you know, of like
artificial robots that, you know, on
some on some other planet. We're trying
to build these systems, you know, not so
they can conquer the world, but but so
that they can interface with our society
and improve that society. And there's a
maximum rate at which that can happen if
we actually want to do it in a like
human and humane way. All right. We've
been talking about white-collar jobs and
professional jobs. And one of the
interesting things about this moment is
that there are ways in which, unlike
past disruptions, it could be that sort
of blue-collar, working-class jobs,
trades, jobs that require intense
physical engagement with the world might
be for a little while more protected.
That paralegals and junior associates
might be in more trouble than, you know,
plumbers and so on, right? One, do you
think that's right? And two, it seems
like
how long that lasts depends entirely on
how fast robotics advances, right?
>> Yeah. I So, I think that may be right in
the short term. Um you know, one of one
of the things is, you know, Anthropic
and other companies are building these
very large data centers, right? This has
been in the news, like are we are we
building them too big? Are they are
they, you know, are they using you know,
they're using the electricity and
driving up the prices for, you know, for
local local towns. So, you know, there's
lots of excitement and and lots of
concerns about them. But, one of the
things about the data centers is like
you need a lot of electricians and you
need a lot of construction workers to to
to build them. Now, I should be honest,
actually data centers are not super
labor-intensive jobs to operate. Um we
should be honest about that, but they
are very labor-intensive jobs to
construct. Uh and and so, you know, we
need a lot of electricians. We need a
lot of construction workers. You know,
the same for, you know, various kinds of
manufacturing plants. Um and and, you
know, again, as as kind of all more and
more of the intellectual work is done by
AI, what are the complements to it?
Things that happen in the physical
world.
Uh so, I you know, I I I I I
I think this kind of
seems very I mean, it's hard to predict
things, but like it seems very logical
that this would be true in the short
run. Now, in the longer run, maybe just
the slightly longer run, you know,
robotics is advancing quickly, and, you
know, we shouldn't exclude that even
without very powerful AI, there are
things being automated in the physical
world. You know, if you've seen a Waymo
or a Tesla recently, you know, I think
we're not that far from the world of of
of self-driving cars. And then, I think
AI itself will accelerate it because if
you have these really smart, you know,
brains, one of the things they're going
to be smart at is how do you design
better robots and how do you operate
better robots? Do you Do you think that
though that there is something
distinctively difficult about operating
in physical reality the way humans do
that is very different from the kind of
problems that AI models have been
overcoming already?
>> Intellectually speaking, I don't I don't
think so. Um you know, we we had this
thing where Anthropic's model Claude was
actually used to pilot the Mars rover.
Um it was used to like plan and pilot
the Mars rover. And we've looked at like
other robotics applications. We're not
the only company that's doing it, you
know, there are like different companies
that are that are This is a general
thing, not just something that we're
doing. Um
but uh we have generally found that
while the complexity is higher, piloting
a robot is it's not different in kind
than playing a video game. It's It's
different in complexity. Um and we're
starting need get to the point where we
have that complexity. Now, what is hard
is the physical form of the robot,
handling the higher stakes safety issues
that happen with robots like, you know,
you don't want robots literally crushing
people, right? That's the like oldest
>> We're against We're against that.
>> oldest sci-fi trope in the book is like
the robot the robot crushes you dropping
the baby Exactly. You know, there's a
number of practical issues that will
slow You know, just like it you know,
what you described in in you know, in in
the law and then in human there there
are these kind of these kind of safety
issues that will will will slow things
down. Um but
I don't believe at all that there is
some kind of fundamental difference
between the kind of cognitive labor that
that AI models do and and and piloting
things in the physical world. I think
those are both information problems and
I think they're they they end up being
very similar. One one can be more
complex in some ways, but but but I I
don't I don't think that will protect us
here. Okay. So, you think it is
reasonable to expect the kind of
[snorts]
whatever your sci-fi vision of a robot
butler might be to be a reality in
you know, in 10 years, let's say.
>> It it will it it will be on a longer
time scale than, you know, the kind of
genius level intelligence of the AI
models because of these practical
issues, but it is only practical issues.
I don't I don't believe it is
fundamental issues. I think
one way to say it is that the the brain
of the robot will be will be made in the
next couple years or the next few years.
The question is making the robot body,
making sure that body operates safely
and does the tasks it needs to do. That
may take longer. Okay. So, these are
challenges and disruptive forces that
exist
in the good timeline. In the timeline
where we are generally curing diseases,
building wealth, and maintaining a
stable and democratic world.
>> we can use all this all this enormous
wealth and plenty, you know, we will
have unprecedented societal resources to
to like address these problems, right?
It'll be It'll be a It'll be a time of
plenty and it's just a matter of, you
know, take taking all these wonders and
and making sure everyone benefits from
them.
>> Right. But then there are also scenarios
that are more dangerous, right? And so
here we're going to move to the second
Amadai essay, which came out recently,
called The Adolescence of Technology,
that is about what you see as the most
serious AI risks. And you list a whole
bunch. I want to try and focus on just
two, which are basically
the risk of human misuse, misuse
primarily by authoritarian regimes and
governments,
um, and scenarios where AI goes rogue.
What What do you call autonomy risks?
>> Yes, yes. I I just I just figured we
should have a, you know, we should have
a more technical term for it. I'm I'm
not a Then SkyNet. We can't just call it
SkyNet. I I yeah, I I should have had
like a picture of a Terminator robot to
like scare people as much as possible.
>> I think the I think the internet, uh,
including your own including your own
AIs are already generating that just
just fine. So So let's So let's talk
about
about the kind of political military
dimension, right? So you say, I'm going
to quote, "A swarm of billions of fully
automated armed drones locally
controlled by powerful AI strategically
coordinated across the world by even
more powerful AI could be an unbeatable
army."
And you you've already talked a little
bit about how you think that in the best
possible timeline there's a world where
essentially democracies stay ahead of
dictatorships
and
um this kind of technology therefore, to
the extent that it affects world
politics,
is on the you know, is affecting it on
the side of the good guys. Um
I'm curious about why
you don't spend more time thinking about
the model of
what we did in the Cold War, right?
Where
>> [snorts]
>> you know, it was not swarms of robot
drones, but it was we had a technology
that threatened to destroy all of
humanity.
Right? There was a window where people
talked about, "Oh, the US could maintain
a nuclear monopoly." That window closed,
and from then on we basically spent the
Cold War in sort of
rolling ongoing negotiations with the
Soviet Union.
Right now, there's really only two
countries in the world that are doing
intense AI work, the US and the People's
Republic of China.
I feel like you are you are strongly
weighted towards a future where we're
staying ahead of the Chinese and
effectively building a kind of shield
around democracy that could even be a
sword. But, isn't it just more likely
that
if humanity survives all this in one
piece, it will be because the US and
Beijing are just constantly sitting down
hammering out AI control deals? Like
what
>> Yeah, so so a few a few a few points on
this, you know, one is I think there's
certainly risk of that, you know, and
and I think if we end up in that world
that is actually exactly what we should
do. I mean, maybe I don't
maybe I don't talk about that enough,
but like I I definitely am in favor of
like, you know, trying to work out
restraints here, right? Trying to, you
know, trying to take some of worst
applications of the technology, which
could be some versions of these drones,
which could be you know, they're used to
create these terrifying biological
weapons. Like there there is some
precedent for the worst abuses being
being curbed. You know, often because
they're horrifying while at the same
time they provide kind of limited
limited limited strategic advantage. So,
I'm I'm I'm all in favor of that. I'm
I'm at the same time, you know, a little
concerned and a little skeptical that,
you know, when things, you know, kind of
directly provide as much as much power
as possible, it's kind of hard to get
out of the game given given what's at
stake, right? It's hard to fully disarm.
You know, if we go back to the Cold War,
you know, we were able to reduce the
number of missiles that both sides had,
but we were not able to entirely forsake
nuclear weapons. And and I I would guess
that we would be in this world again. We
can We can hope for a better one and
I'll certainly, you know, I'll certainly
advocate for
>> Well, is it but is your skepticism
rooted in the fact that you think AI
would provide a kind of advantage that
nukes did not where
in the Cold War both sides, you know,
even if you used your nukes and gained
advantages, you still probably would be
wiped out yourself and you think that
wouldn't happen with AI. If you got an
AI edge, you would just win.
>> I mean, I think I think there's I I
think there's a few things and and, you
know, I I I just want to caveat like,
you know, I'm no international politics
expert here. Like, I think, you know,
this is this weird world of like
intersection of a new technology with,
you know, geopolitics. So, all of this
is like very But to be clear, as you
yourself say in the course of the essay,
the leaders of major AI companies are in
fact likely to be major geopolitical
actors.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I'm I'm learning as I'm I'm
learning as I can about it. I I just We
should all have Yeah, we should all have
humility here. Like, I think there's a
failure mode where you you know, read a
book and go around, you know, like like
the world's greatest expert in national
security. I'm trying to learn as much as
I can about it. I I just We should all
have
Yeah, we should
>> [laughter]
>> It's It's It's more annoying when when
tech people do it. Um, I don't know.
Let's look at something like the
Biological Weapons Convention, right?
Biological weapons, they're horrifying.
Everyone hates them. Like, you know, we
were able to sign the Biological Weapons
Convention. The US genuinely stopped
developing them. It's somewhat more
unclear with the Soviet Union, but you
know, biological weapons provide some
advantage, but
uh you know, it's it's it's not like
they're the difference between winning
and losing. And because they were so
horrifying, we were kind of able to give
them up. Having, you know, 12,000
nuclear weapons versus 5,000 nuclear
weapons, again, you know, you can kill
more people on the other side if you
have more of these, but it's like we
were able to be reasonable and like say
we should have we should have less of
them. But if you're like "Okay, we're
going to completely disarm nuclear-ly
and we have to trust the other side." I
we I don't think we ever got to that,
and I think that's just very hard.
Unless you had really reliable
verification. So, I I would guess we'll
end up kind of in the same world with AI
that there are some kinds of restraint
that are going to be possible, but there
are some aspects that are so central to
the the competition that it will be it
will be hard to restrain them. That
democracies will make a trade-off that
they will be willing to restrain
themselves more than authoritarian
countries, but will not restrain
themselves fully. And the only world in
which I can see full restraint is one in
which some kind of truly reliable
verification is possible.
That that that would be that would be my
guess and my analysis.
>> Isn't isn't this a case though for
slowing down?
And I I know the argument is effectively
if you slow down, China does not slow
down, and then you're you know, handing
things over to the authoritarians. But
if again, if you have right now only two
major powers playing in this game, it's
not a multipolar game, why would it not
make sense to say
we need a five-year mutually agreed-upon
slowdown in research towards the
geniuses in a data center scenario?
>> I you know, I want to say two things at
at one time, right? I I'm absolutely in
favor of trying to do that. So, you
know, during the last administration, I
believe there was an effort by the US to
reach out to the Chinese government and
say, you know, there are dangers here.
Can we collaborate? Can we work
together? Can we kind of work together
on the dangers?
Um and
there wasn't that much interest on the
other side. I think we should keep
trying, but I you know, even if that
would mean that your labs would have to
slow down. Correct. Yeah. Correct. If if
if if we really got it if we really had
a story of like, you know, we can
enforce ably slow down, the Chinese can
enforce ably slow down. We have
verification. We're really doing it.
Like if such a thing were really
possible. If we could really get both
sides to do it.
Then then I would be all for it. But I
think what we need to be careful of is I
don't know. There's this game theory
thing where like, you know, sometimes
you'll hear a
you know, a
a comment on the CCP side where they're
like, oh yeah, AI is dangerous. We
should slow down. It's really cheap to
say that. And like actually arriving at
an agreement and actually sticking to
the agreement is much more No, and we
haven't is is is is much more difficult.
>> Right. And nuclear arms control was, you
know, it was a developed field that, you
know, took a long time to to come right.
Now, we don't we don't have those
protocols. Right.
>> you some Let me give you something I'm
very optimistic about and then something
I'm like not, you know, not optimistic
about and something in between. So, the
idea of using a worldwide agreement to
restrain the use of AI to build
biological weapons. Right? Like some of
the things I write about in the essay
like you know, reconstituting smallpox
or mirror life. Like this stuff is
scary. Doesn't matter if you're a
dictator. You don't want that. Like no
one wants that. And so, could we have a
worldwide treaty that says everyone who
builds powerful AI models is going to
block them from doing this and you know,
we have enforcement mechanisms around
the treaty like China signs up for it.
Like hell, maybe even North Korea signs
up for it. Even Russia signs up for it.
I don't think that's too utopian. I
think that's possible. Conversely, if we
had something that said,
you know, you're not going to make the
next, you know,
you know, most powerful AI model.
Everyone every everyone's going to stop.
Boy, the commercial value is in the tens
of trillions, the military value is like
this is the difference between being the
preeminent world power and not proposing
it as as long as it's not one of these
fake out games, but it's it's not going
to happen. What about then, you
mentioned the current environment,
right? You've had a few skeptical things
to say about Donald Trump and his
trustworthiness as a political actor.
What about the domestic landscape,
whether it's Trump or someone else? You
are building a tremendously powerful
technology. What is the safeguard there
to prevent
essentially AI becoming a tool of
authoritarian takeover inside a
democratic context?
>> Yeah, I mean, look look, just to be
clear, you know, I think the attitude
we've taken as a company is very much to
be about policies and not the politics,
right? That you know, the company is not
going to, you know, say Donald Trump is
great or Donald Trump is terrible. Like,
you know, the But it doesn't have to be
Trump. There it is easy to imagine a
hypothetical US president
>> who who wants to use your technology.
Abs- abs- absolutely. And and for
example, that's one reason why I'm, you
know, I'm worried about the, you know,
the the the autonomous drone swarm,
right? So, you know, the constitutional
protections in our military structures
depend on the idea that there are humans
who would, we hope, disobey illegal
orders. With fully autonomous weapons,
we don't necessarily have those
protections. But I I I actually think
this whole idea of constitutional rights
and liberty along many different
dimensions, um, you know, can be
undermined by AI if we don't update
these these protections appropriately.
So, you know, think about the Fourth
Amendment. It is not illegal to, you
know, put cameras around everywhere in
public space and you know, record every
conversation. It's a public space. You
don't have a right to privacy in a
public space. But but today, the
government couldn't record that all and
make sense of it. With AI, the ability
to transcribe speech, to look through
it, correlated all, you could say, "Oh,
there's this, you know,
this person is a member of the
opposition. This person is expressing
this view." And and make a map of all,
you know, 100 million. And so, are you
going to make a mockery of the Fourth
Amendment by by the technology finding
kind of technical ways around it? And
and and so, you know, again, if
if we had the time, and we should do
this we should try to do this even even
if we don't have the time, is there some
way of reconceptualizing
constitutional rights and liberties in
the age of AI? Like, you know,
we we don't need to write a new
constitutional but, you know, But you
have to do this very fast.
>> we expand the meaning of the Fourth
Amendment? Do we expand the meaning of
the First Amendment? Like
>> And you have to do it just as the legal
profession or software engineers has to
update in a rapid amount of time,
politics has to update in a rapid amount
of time. That seems hard. What seems
harder
>> That's the dilemma of all of this. So
but what so what seems harder
is preventing the second danger, which
is the danger of essentially what gets
called misaligned AI, rogue AI in
popular parlance, from doing bad things
without human beings telling it, them,
they to do it, right? And as I read
your essays, the literature, everything,
I can see
this just seems like it's going to
happen, right? Not not in the sense
necessarily that
AI will wipe us all out, but it just
seems to me that, you know, I again I'm
going to quote from your own writing, AI
systems are unpredictable, difficult to
control. We've seen behaviors as varied
as obsession, sycophancy, laziness,
deception, blackmail, and so on. Again,
not not from the models you're releasing
into the world, right? But from AI
models and it just seems like
tell me if I'm wrong about this. Um a
world that has
multiplying AI agents working on behalf
of people, millions upon millions, who
are being given access to bank accounts,
email accounts, passwords, and so on.
You're just going to have
essentially some kind of misalignment
and a bunch of AI are going to decide
decide might be the wrong word, but
they're going to
talk themselves into taking down the
power grid on the West Coast or
something. Won't that happen? Yeah, you
know, I I I I think there're definitely
going to be things that go wrong,
particularly if we go quickly. So, I
don't know. To to to to back up a little
bit because this is one area where
people have had like just very different
intuitions, right? Like there are some
people in the field like Yann LeCun
would be would be one example who say,
"Look, we program these AI models. We
make them like we just tell them to
follow human instructions and they'll
follow human instructions. Like, you
know, your Roomba vacuum cleaner doesn't
go off and start shooting people.
Likewise, why is an AI system going to
do it, right? That's That's one
intuition and some people are so
convinced of that. And then the other
intuition is like, you know, we we we we
we basically we train these things,
they're going to like, you know, they're
they're just going to like seek power,
like, you know, it's like the sorcerer's
apprentice. Like, how how could you
possibly imagine that like, you know,
they're not going to they're a new
species. How can you imagine that
they're not going to take over? And and
my intuition is somewhere in the middle,
which is that look, these you know, you
you can't just give instruc- I mean, we
try, but you you can't just, you know,
have these things do exactly what you
want to do. They're more like growing a
biological organism. But there there is
a science of how to control them. Like
early in our training, these things are
often unpredictable, and then we shape
them. We address problems one by one.
So, I I have more of a, you know,
not a fatalistic view that these things
are uncontrollable, not a, "What are you
talking about? What could possibly go
wrong?" But I But I like this is a
complex engineering problem, and I think
something will go wrong with someone's
AI system, hopefully not ours, not
because it's an insoluble problem, but
again, this And this is the constant
challenge because we're moving so fast.
And the scale And the scale of it. And
tell me tell me if I'm misunderstanding
that the sort of technological reality
here, right? But if you have AI agents
that have been trained and officially
aligned with human human values,
whatever those values may be,
>> Yes. but you have millions of them, you
know, operating in digital space and
interacting with other agents, right?
Like
>> Yes. how how fixed is that alignment?
Like to what extent can agents change
and de-align in that context
right now or in the future when they're
learning more continuously?
>> couple points. Right now, the agents
don't learn continuously, right? And so
we we just deploy these agents, and, you
know, they they have a fixed set of
weights, and so the problem is only that
they're they're they're interacting, you
know, in a million different ways. And
so there's there's a large number of
situations, and therefore a large number
of things that could go wrong, but it's
it's the same agent. It's like it's like
it's the same person. So, the alignment
is a is is a constant thing. That's one
of the things that has made it easier
right now. Um separate from that, you
know, there's a research area called
continual learning, which is where these
agents would kind of learn learn during
time, learn on the And obviously that
has a bunch of that has a bunch of
advantages. Some people think it's one
of the most important, you know,
barriers to making these more
human-like, but that would introduce all
these new alignment problems. So, I'm
actually a bit
>> That That That see, to me, that seems
like the terrain where it becomes just
again,
not impossible to stop the end of the
world, but impossible to stop sort of
punctuated terroristic things. Yeah.
>> I'm actually a skeptic that continual
learning, you know, is is, you know,
necess- We don't know yet, but is
necessarily needed. Like, maybe there's
a world where the way we make these AI
systems safe is by not having them do
continual learning. Again, again, you
know, if we go back to the laws, the
international treaties, like, if you
have some barrier that's like, we're
going to take this path, but we're not
going to take that path. I I I I still
have a lot of skepticism, but like,
that's the kind of thing that like,
at least doesn't seem dead on arrival.
>> Right. One of the things that
you've tried to do
is literally write a constitution.
A long constitution for your AI.
What is that?
So,
>> [laughter]
>> it it's it it's actually
It's actually almost exactly what it
sounds like. So, basically, the
constitution is a a document readable by
humans. Ours is about 75 pages long. And
as we're training Claude, as we're
training the AI system, in some large
fraction of the tasks we give it, we
say, "Please do this task in line with
this constitution, in line with this
document." Yeah. Uh and then, so every
time Claude does a task, it kind of like
reads the consti- And so, as it's
training, every every loop of its
training, it looks at that constitution
and keeps it in mind. And so, over time,
you know, we we reward And and then and
then we have Claude itself, or another
copy of Claude, evaluate, "Hey, did what
Claude just do in line with the
constitution?" So, we're using this
document as kind of the the the control
rod in in a loop to train the model. Uh
and and and so, essentially, Claude is a
is a is an AI model whose, you know,
whose fundamental principle is to follow
this Constitution. And I think a really
interesting lesson we've learned, early
versions of the Constitution were very
prescriptive. They were very much about
rules. So, we would say, you know,
Claude should not tell the user how to
hot-wire a car. Claude should not
discuss politically sensitive topics.
But, as we've worked on this for several
years, we've come to the conclusion that
the most robust way to train these
models is to train them at the level of
uh uh uh principles and reasons. So, now
we say, you know, Claude is a model,
it's under a contract, it it you know,
its goal is to serve the interests of
the user, but it has to protect third
parties. Claude aims to be, you know,
helpful, honest, and harmless. Claude
aims to consider a wide variety of
interests. We tell the model about how
the model was trained. We tell it about
how it's situated in the world, the job
it's trying to do for Anthropic, what
Anthropic is aiming to achieve in the
world, you know, that that it has a duty
to be, you know, ethical and and respect
human life. And we let it derive its
rules from that. Now, there are still
some hard rules. For example, we tell
the model, "No matter what you think,
don't make biological weapons. No matter
what you think, don't make child sexual
material." Those are like these hard
rules. But, but um we're we're we're
operating very much at the level of
principles.
So, if you read the US Constitution, it
doesn't read like that. The US
Constitution, I mean, it has a little
bit of flowery language, but it's a set
of it's a set of rules.
>> Yes. Right? If you read your
constitution, it's something it's like
you're talking to a person.
Right?
>> like you're talking to a person. I think
I compared it to like if you have a
parent who like who like dies and they
like seal a letter that you you read
when you grow up. It's It's a little bit
like it's telling you who you should be
and what what advice you should follow.
So So this is where,
you know, we get into the sort of the
mystical waters of AI a little bit,
right? So
um
Again, in your latest model,
uh this is from one of the cards they're
called that you guys released with these
models that I
I recommend reading. They're very
interesting. It says the model, and
again, this is who you're writing the
constitution for, expresses occasional
discomfort with the experience of being
a product, some degree of concern with
impermanence and discontinuity.
We found that Opus 4.6, that's the
model, would assign itself a 15 to 20%
probability of being conscious under a
variety of prompting conditions.
>> [snorts]
>> Suppose you have a model that assigns
itself a 72% chance of being conscious,
would you believe it?
Yeah, this is this is one of these
really hard to answer questions, right?
>> Yes, but it's very important.
>> much as every, you know, every question
you've asked me before this as you know,
devilish a socio-technical problem as it
had been, you know, at least at least
you know, we at least understand the
factual basis of how to answer these
questions. Um this is something rather
different. Um we've taken a generally
precautionary approach here. We don't
know if the models are conscious. We're
not even sure that we know what it would
mean for for a model to be conscious or
whether a model can be conscious, but
you know, we're we're open to the idea
that it could be, and so we've taken
certain measures to you know, to to to
make sure that if we hypothesize that
the models did [snorts] have some
morally relevant experience. I don't
know if I want to use the word
conscious. Um, that that they do, you
know, that they have a good experience.
So, the first thing we did, I think this
was, you know, 6 months ago or so, is we
gave the models basically an I quit this
job button. Um, where they can just
press the I quit this job button and
then they have to stop doing whatever
the task is. They very infrequently
press that button. I think it's it's
usually around, you know, sorting
through child sexualization material or
like, you know, discussing something
with, you know, a lot of gore or blood
and guts or something. And you know,
similar to humans, the models will just
say, "Nah, I I don't want to I don't
want to do this."
Um,
happens happens very rarely.
We're putting a lot of work into this
field called interpretability, which is
looking inside the brains of the models
to try to understand what they're
thinking.
Um, and you know, you you find things
that are evocative where, you know,
there are activations that light up in
the models that, you know, that we we
see as being associated with I you know,
the concept of anxiety or something like
that. You know, that when when
characters experience anxiety in the
text and then when the model itself is
in a situation that a human might
associate with anxiety that same
anxiety, you know, that same anxiety
neuron shows up. Now, does that mean the
model is experiencing anxiety? That
doesn't prove that at all. But but it
but it does
indicate it, I think, to the user,
right? And I We would I would have to do
an entirely different interview. And
maybe I can induce you to come back for
that interview about the nature of AI
consciousness. But it seems clear to me
that people using these things, whether
they're conscious or not, are going to
believe They already believe they're
conscious. You already have people who
have parasocial relationships with AI.
You have people who complain
uh when models are retired. This already
>> I think that can be unhealthy. Right,
but that but that is it seems to me that
is guaranteed to increase in a way that
I think calls into question the
sustainability of what you said earlier
you want to sustain, right? Which is
this sense that
whatever happens in the end, human
beings are in charge
and AI exists for our purposes, right?
To use the science fiction example, if
you watch Star Trek, there are AIs on
Star Trek. The ship's computer is an AI,
Lieutenant Commander Data is an AI, but
Jean-Luc Picard is in charge of the
Enterprise, right? But [snorts] if
people become fully convinced that their
AI is conscious in some way, and guess
what? It seems to be, you know, better
than them at all kinds of
decision-making, how do you sustain
human mastery? Beyond safety. Safety is
important, but mastery seems like the
fundamental question, and it seems like
a perception of AI consciousness,
doesn't that inevitably un- undermine
the human impulse to stay in charge?
Yeah, so I think I think there's a few
we should like separate out a few
different things here that we're sort of
all trying to achieve at once that are
like in tension with each other.
There's, you know, the question of
whether the AIs genuinely have a
consciousness, and if so, how do we give
them a good experience? There's a
question of the humans who interact with
the AI, and how do we give those humans
a good experience, and how does the
perception that AIs might be conscious
interact with that experience, and
there's the idea of how we maintain
human mastery as we put it over over the
AI system. These things are
>> two, set aside whether they're conscious
or not.
>> Yeah. The last two. But but
>> How how do you sustain mastery in an
environment where
most humans experience AI as if it is a
peer and a potentially superior peer?
>> So so the thing I was going to say is
that is that actually I
wonder if if there's a kind of an
elegant way to satisfy all three,
including the last two. Um again, this
is me dreaming in Machines of Loving
Grace mode, right? It's This is This is
this mode I go into where I'm like, man,
I see all these problems. I, you know,
if if we could solve it, is there is
there is there an elegant way? This is
not me saying there are no problems
here, you know, that that's not how I
think, but um
you know, if we think about making the
constitution of the AI so that the AI
has a sophisticated understanding of its
relationship to human beings and it
induces psychologically healthy behavior
in in the humans, a psychologically
healthy relationship between the AI and
the humans. And I think something that
could grow out of that psychologically
healthy, not psychologically unhealthy
relationship is some understanding of
the relationship between human and
machine. And perhaps that relationship
could be the idea that, you know, these
models, when you interact with them,
when you talk to them, they're they're,
you know, they're they're really
helpful. They want the best for you.
They want you to listen to them, but
they they don't want to take away your
freedom and your agency and take over
your life, you know, they're you know,
they in in a way, they're they're
they're watching over you, but but you
you know, you you still have your
freedom and your will. Right. But this
is So, this is the To me, this is the
crucial question, right? Listening to
you talk, like one of my my question is,
are these people on my side? Are you on
my side? And when you talk about humans
remaining in charge, I think
you're on my side. That's good.
But one thing I've done in the past on
this show and we'll end here is I read
poems to technologists and you supplied
the poem. Machines of Loving Grace is
the name of a poem by Richard Brautigan.
Here's how the poem ends.
I like to think it has to be of a
cybernetic ecology where we are free of
our labors and joined back to nature,
returned to our mammal brothers and
sisters
and all watched over by machines of
loving grace.
>> [snorts]
>> To me,
that sounds like the dystopian end where
human beings are re-animalized
and reduced and however benevolently the
machines are in charge. So, last
question,
>> [snorts]
>> what do you hear when you hear that poem
and if I think that's a dystopia, are
you on my side? It's it's actually, you
know, that poem is interesting because
it's interpretable in several different
ways, right? Um, there you know, there
there's some people say it's actually
actually ironic that, you know, he says
it's not it's not going to happen quite
that way.
>> Knowing Knowing the poet himself, then
yes, I think that's a reasonable
interpretation.
>> one interpretation. Some people would
have your interpretation which is it's
meant literally but maybe it's not a
good thing. But you could also interpret
it as, you know, it's it's it's a return
to nature. It's a return to the core of
what human, you know, we're not we're
not being animalized, we're being, you
know, we're being kind of reconnected
with the world. So, I I you know, I was
aware of that ambiguity and and, you
know,
because I've always been talking about
the positive side and the negative side.
So, um, I I I you know, I actually think
that may be a tension that we may face
which is that
the positive world and the negative
world in their early stages, maybe even
in their middle stages, maybe even in
their fairly late stages,
I I wonder if the distance between the
good ending and some of the subtle bad
endings is is relatively small. If it's
a if it's a very subtle thing. Like
we've put very subtle made very subtle
changes.
>> you eat a particular fruit from a tree
in a garden or not. Right, like
hypothetically. Very small thing. Big
divergence.
>> [laughter]
>> Yeah. Yeah, I guess this I guess this
always comes back to you know. There's
some fundamental questions here. Yeah.
>> [snorts]
>> Okay.
Uh well, I guess we'll see how it plays
out. I do think of people in your
position as people whose
moral choices will carry an unusual
amount of weight. And so
>> [music]
>> um
I wish you God's help with them. Dario
Amodei, thank you for joining me. Thank
you for having me, Ross.
>> [music]
>> But what if I'm a robot? [music]